# GMail MBOX splitter

How to use this Python script to extract emails from a GMail inbox Takeout — when you have a lot of emails and other, simpler, imports fail.

### 1. Download MBOX from Google Takeout

### 2. Split MBOX by labels

```shell
./mbox_split.py --infile google_mbox.mbox
```

You may need to `chmod 755 mbox_split.py` to be able to run.

Alternatively, you can just export by label from Google Takeout directly.

This script will generate in the current working directory several mailboxes in the `mbox` format, corresponding to each of your Gmail labels, plus "Sent", "Archive" and "INBOX".

You can prefix the output files using the `-p <prefix>` parameter to the script: all output filenames will be prepended with <prefix>.

Messages are stored only once: messages that have several labels will be storred in only one target mbox, usually corresponding to the first valid label.

The script will generate output in the form of:
```
Storing <message-id> from "sender" to mbox "label"
```
Along with an initial count of messages in the source mbox and and final tally of messages stored and ignored.
It is thus recommended to redirect the script output to a file.

**Note:** Meta labels such as "Important", "Unread", "Starred", or "Newsletters" are ignored, **however the script attempts to preserve "Unread" and "Starred" status** by setting up the corresponding Status and X-Status flags.

If you use dovecot, you can stop there: `dsync` will happily process the mailboxes generated by this script

### 3. MBOX to Maildir

An attempt was made to convert on the fly, unfortunately it seems the python Maildir backend does not properly set the filenames according to their delivery date. A script is nevertheless provided as `mbox_split_tomaildir.py` for the brave: it appears that all email will be successfully converted, but unfortunately it will look as if it was all received at the time the script was run.
